# Prediction of PVT Mean Inverse Reaction Time after Sleep Loss## MotivationThis repository contains the files created to predict an individual's PVT Mean Inverse RT. The files include the entire process: data cleaning, feature engineering, model application,and result analysis.We use an Ensemble Mixed Effects Model which itself uses a Linear Mixed Effects (LME) model and a Mixed Effects Random Random (MERF) model. All the code is written in Python 3.6. The LME is fit using Python's rpy2 interface which uses R's lme4 package. The MERF is fit using the merf Python package (https://github.com/manifoldai/merf).## ContentsThe contents of this repository are as follows: ### DataThe data files are composed of generated data in the same format as the actual data used originally. We include 3 types of data for this repository for 25 participants (coded A-Y): Psychomotor Vigilance Test (PVTSummaryData.csv and PVTRawData.csv which include the raw reaction times and summary metrics per session of the test), Sleep information (SleepInformation.csv), and Subject information (SubjectInformation.csv). There is also a file that's used for plotting that contains the timing of the sleep periods for each participant (SleepTimingFile.csv).### Notebooks1. Code Example Notebook.ipynb: notebook that shows examples for using the codebase2. Data Cleaning and Merging Notebook.ipynb: notebook that contains the code used for cleaning and merging the original files. Not meant to be or able to be run in the current location as the original files are not present, but meant to help with similiar future data cleaning.3. Participants.ipynb: notebook containing the Participants and Participant classes which contain information about each participant4. DataCollection.ipynb: notebook that contains the data for collecting and organizing the data for the prediction problem, splitting the data for nested cross-validation, and imputing and normalizing the data.5. EnsembleModel.ipynb: notebook that contains the classes LinearMixedEffectsModel, MERFModel and EnsembleModel with methods to fit and analyze the respective models6. PointProcess.ipynb: notebook that contains the code to fit renewal Inverse Gaussian and history-dependent Inverse Gaussian Point Process models. Also contains functions for extracting the mean and shape parameters from these distributions per session of the PVT.### OtherThere is a requirements.txt file for the package dependencies. Also there is a Datasets folder where files are saved when the data collection occurs.